---
layout: post
title:  "December 2014"
date:   2014-12-31 23:59:59
---

# Network outage at IC

Around 19:00 on Saturday 13th December the web site began experiencing problems. TomH
became aware of this around 19:20 and after establishing there there appeared to be some
sort of network problem that made many machines at IC unreachable the site was manually
placed in offline mode as both the database and chef servers were unreachable.

An email was sent to IC just after midnight, as the problem was still unresolved, and
things came back to life around 01:30 and the site came back online automatically once
chef was available again.

# Tile caches

The GeoDNS system used for the tile caches was switched to use gdnsd with the Maxmind
database, as the database used in the old system was no longer being updated. This also
enabled support for the EDNS client subnet option to allow resolvers to pass on the
real address of the client.

Three new tile caches were bought online, in Croatia, London and Oregon and the existing
tile caches were all upgraded to Ubunt 14.04.

# Planet dumps

The weekly planet dumps were switched to use planet-dump-ng meaning that the planet dump
no longer has to query the database directly. In addition the XML and PBF exports are now
produced in parallel, along with weekly full history exports.

# Nominatim

The original Nominatim server, poldi, which has been out of service for a while was
reinstalled with Ubuntu 14.04 on 18th December and is now being setup to share the
service load with pummelzacken.

# Forum server

The forum server, `clifford`, which had been down and was not responding to attempts to
boot it remotely, was visited and persuaded to boot cleanly. It has now also been
upgraded to Ubuntu 14.04 and is ready for forum installation. (See [operations issue tracker](https://github.com/openstreetmap/operations/issues/1) for details).
